Ok, so now we are going to look at a very
important point of this topic of personal
identity and information.
The first thing is to talk about past
experiences, we are going to see this
topic, explain it a little more.
Remember that in the blog you have many
other things explained, but here in this
video we are going to see some that are
quite specific.
So, when you want to say that you have
done something, you say yo he viajado, right?
In English you would say yo he, I have,
it is the same as tengo, I have traveled, right?
o por ejemplo yo he comido, I have eaten,
como quieras decirlo.
Ok, entonces cuando quieres decir yo he,
I have, por ejemplo, I have visited my
hometown many times.
I have eaten sushi before.
Yo he comido sushi antes.
Otro, I have read that book already.
Ahora, eso también lo puedes utilizar ese
have con otras personas.
Por ejemplo, si dices nosotros hemos
comido, we have eaten, miremos ejemplos.
They have finished their homework.
Mírala que también la podemos usar con
they, ellos han, they have, lo mismo, el
mismo, la misma acción, they have bought
a new car.
Ellos han comprado un nuevo carro.
Otro, we have worked together for five years.
And the last one, we have visited this
place many times.
Ok, entonces ya sabes yo he, I have,
ellos han, they have, nosotros hemos, we
have, la misma cosa.
Ahora, las tres personas especiales, como
sabemos para esas personas casi todas las
cosas se hacen un tanto diferente.
Entonces, para las tres personas
especiales, en vez de usar have, vamos a
usar has con s. Has, for example, he has,
she has, it has.
Vamos a ver algunos ejemplos.
She has traveled to Spain three times.
She has learned a new language.
Ella ha aprendido una nueva lengua o un
nuevo idioma.
¿Listo?
Next, he has read three books this month.
Wow, very good.
And another one, he has visited his grandparents.
Y otro muy importante, por ejemplo,
cuando quieres decir que algo ha, por
ejemplo, it has.
¿Listo?
Ha estado muy frío.
It has been very cold.
Ok, muy bien.
Así que vas a encontrar unos ejercicios
aquí abajo en la descripción de la
lección para que los hagas y también
compartas tus respuestas en los comentarios.
Nos vemos en la siguiente lección.